Compliance Operator v0.1.57 release notes and enhancements added (#50778)
openshift/openshift-docs: security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-release-notes.adoc

For an overview of the Compliance Operator, see xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-understanding.adoc#understanding-compliance-operator[Understanding the Compliance Operator].

[id="compliance-operator-release-notes-0-1-55"]
== OpenShift Compliance Operator 0.1.55

The following advisory is available for the OpenShift Compliance Operator 0.1.55:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2022:6657[RHBA-2022:6657 - OpenShift Compliance Operator bug fix update]

[id="compliance-operator-0-1-55-new-features-and-enhancements"]
=== New features and enhancements

> * `KubeletConfig` now checks the default configuration of the `KubeletConfig`. The configuration files are aggregated from all nodes into a single location. See xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-remediation.adoc#compliance-evaluate-kubeletconfig-rules[Evaluating `KubeletConfig` rules against default configuration values].

Reviewer: nit: into a single location per node pool?

Reviewer 2: we should probably explicitly say that the kubelet checks changed their type from `Node` to `Platform` as part of this change. Even in internal testing, there were people who were running only node checks and thought that the kubelet checks have disappeared, see https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CMP-1591

* The `ScanSetting` Custom Resource now allows users to override the default CPU and memory limits of scanner pods through the `scanLimits` attribute.  For more information, see xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-troubleshooting.adoc#compliance-increasing-operator-limits[Increasing Compliance Operator resource limits].

* A `PriorityClass` can now be set through `ScanSetting`. This will ensure the Compliance Operator is prioritized and minimizes the chance that the cluster will fall out of compliance. For more information, see xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-advanced.adoc#compliance-priorityclass_compliance-advanced[Setting `PriorityClass` for `ScanSetting` scans].

[id="compliance-operator-0-1-55-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator hard-coded notifications to the default namespace. If the Operator were installed in a non-default namespace, the notifications would not work as expected. Now, Notifications work in non-default namespaces. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2060726[*BZ#2060726*])

Reviewer 2: The default namespace here refers to the openshift-compliance namespace. Because a namespace called "default" also exists on all OCP clusters, we might want to spell out openshift-compliance explicitly.

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator hard-coded notifications to the default namespace. If the Operator were installed in a non-default namespace, the notifications would not work as expected. Now, Notifications work in non-default namespaces. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2060726[*BZ#2060726*])

Reviewer: Is Notifications intended as a proper noun here?

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator was unable to evaluate default configurations used by kubelets, resulting in inaccurate results and false positives. This new feature evaluates the kubelet configuration and now reports accurately. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2075041[*BZ#2075041*])

Reviewer: Do we have the ability to link `This new feature` to the Kubelet configuration docs?

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator was unable to evaluate default configurations used by kubelets, resulting in inaccurate results and false positives. Now, a new feature evaluates kubelet configuration and will report accurately. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2075041[*BZ#2075041*])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Compliance Operator was unable to evaluate default configurations used by kubelets, resulting in inaccurate results and false positives. This new feature evaluates the kubelet configuration and now reports accurately. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2075041[*BZ#2075041*])
```

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator had a set rule for speed at which evaluations were recorded, causing the `ocp4-kubelet-configure-event-creation` rule to fail even after remediations were applied. Now, the check and remediation uses the same variable to evaluate and remediate the system. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2082416[*BZ#2082416*])

Reviewer 2: I think spelling out the `eventRecordQPS` field of the kubeletConfig might be even better here.

* The `ocp4-configure-network-policies` rule requires manual intervention to perform effectively. New descriptive instructions and rule updates increase applicability of the `ocp4-configure-network-policies` rule for clusters using Calico CNIs. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2091794[*BZ#2091794*])

* Previously, the Compliance Operator would not clean up pods used to scan infrastructure when using the `debug=true` option in the scan settings. This caused pods to be left on the cluster even after deleting the Scan Setting Binding. Now, pods are always deleted when a Scan Setting Binding is deleted.(link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2092913[*BZ#2092913*])

* Previously, the Compliance Operator used an older version of `operator-sdk` that caused alerts about deprecated functionality. Now, an updated version of `operator-sdk` is included and there are no more alerts for deprecated functionality. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2098581[*BZ#2098581*])

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator made assumptions about machine configuration names, and as a result was unable to determine the relationship between machine configurations and kubelet configurations. Now, the Compliance Operator has improved handling of the machine configurations and is able to determine if a kubelet configuration is a subset of a machine configuration. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2102511[*BZ#2102511*])

Reviewer: This one does a good job describing the technical details, but I wonder if we should include what made this a bug. As a reader, I'm not sure how this affects my usage of the Compliance Operator (e.g., I should have been more clear in my doc text!)

Perhaps something like:

```
Previously, the Compliance Operator would fail to apply remediations if it couldn't
determine the relationship between kubelet and machine configurations....
```

* Previously, The rule for `ocp4-cis-node-master-kubelet-enable-cert-rotation` did not properly describe success criteria. As a result, the requirements for `RotateKubeletClientCertificate` were unclear. Now, the rule for `ocp4-cis-node-master-kubelet-enable-cert-rotation` reports accurately regardless of the configuration present in the kubelet configuration file. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2105153[*BZ#2105153*])

* Previously, the rule for checking idle streaming timeouts did not consider default values, resulting in inaccurate rule reporting. Now, more robust checks ensure increased accuracy in results based on default configuration values. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2105878[*BZ#2105878*])

* Previously, the Compliance Operator would fail to fetch API resources when parsing machine configurations without Ignition specifications, results in `api-check-pods` to crash loop. Now, the Compliance Operator handles Machine Config Pools without Ignition specifications correctly. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2117268[*BZ#2117268*])

> * Previously, rules evaluating `modprobe` configuration would fail even after applying remediations, due to a mismatch in values for `modprobe` configuration. Now, the same values are used for `modprobe` configuration in checks and remediations, ensuring consistent results. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2117747[*BZ#2117747*])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Previously, rules evaluating the `modprobe` configuration would fail even after applying remediations due to a mismatch in values for the `modprobe` configuration. Now, the same values are used for the `modprobe` configuration in checks and remediations, ensuring consistent results. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2117747[*BZ#2117747*])
```

[id="compliance-operator-0-1-55-deprecations"]
=== Deprecations

> * Specifying "Install into all namespaces in the cluster" or setting the `WATCH_NAMESPACES` environment variable to `""` no longer affects all namespaces. This change improves the Compliance Operator's memory usage.

Reviewer 2: I think we should expand on this. The effect on the end user is that any API resources installed in other namespaces than the one specified for installation will not work anymore. Typically this would mean that all resources would have to be created in the openshfit-compliance namespace.

[id="compliance-operator-release-notes-0-1-55"]
== OpenShift Compliance Operator 0.1.55

The following advisory is available for the OpenShift Compliance Operator 0.1.55:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2022:6657[RHBA-2022:6657 - OpenShift Compliance Operator bug fix update]

[id="compliance-operator-0-1-55-new-features-and-enhancements"]
=== New features and enhancements

* `KubeletConfig` checks changed from `Node` to `Platform` type. `KubeletConfig` checks the default configuration of the `KubeletConfig`. The configuration files are aggregated from all nodes into a single location per node pool. See xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-remediation.adoc#compliance-evaluate-kubeletconfig-rules[Evaluating `KubeletConfig` rules against default configuration values].

* The `ScanSetting` Custom Resource now allows users to override the default CPU and memory limits of scanner pods through the `scanLimits` attribute.  For more information, see xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-troubleshooting.adoc#compliance-increasing-operator-limits[Increasing Compliance Operator resource limits].

> * A `PriorityClass` can now be set through `ScanSetting`. This will ensure the Compliance Operator is prioritized and minimizes the chance that the cluster will fall out of compliance. For more information, see xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-advanced.adoc#compliance-priorityclass_compliance-advanced[Setting `PriorityClass` for `ScanSetting` scans].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* A `PriorityClass` object can now be set through a`ScanSetting` CR. This will ensure the Compliance Operator is prioritized and minimizes the chance that the cluster will fall out of compliance. For more information, see xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-advanced.adoc#compliance-priorityclass_compliance-advanced[Setting `PriorityClass` for `ScanSetting` scans].
```

[id="compliance-operator-0-1-57-bug-fixes"]

> === Bug fixes

Reviewer 5: For the bug fixes, it only highlight the bugs from bugzilla. Do we need to add the bugs from Jira issues? Thanks.

Author: @rhmdnd can you confirm if any of the Jira issues need to be added to the bug fix section of this release? It seems like [OCPBUGS-2331](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2331) and [OCPBUGS-1066](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1066) are bug fixes since the last downstream release, correct? Can you assist with the cause/consequence/fix/result in the Jiras so I can update the bug fixes for this release?

Author: We may have to address additional bugs post-release, as this content is now live and needs to be merged. The errata points to this documentation.

* Previously, the Compliance Operator hard-coded notifications to the default `openshift-compliance` namespace. If the Operator were installed in a non-default namespace, the notifications would not work as expected. Now, notifications work in non-default `openshift-compliance` namespaces. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2060726[*BZ#2060726*])

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator was unable to evaluate default configurations used by kubelet objectss, resulting in inaccurate results and false positives. xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-remediation.adoc#compliance-evaluate-kubeletconfig-rules[This new feature] evaluates the kubelet configuration and now reports accurately. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2075041[*BZ#2075041*])

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Compliance Operator was unable to evaluate default configurations used by kubelet objects, resulting in inaccurate results and false positives. xref:../../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-remediation.adoc#compliance-evaluate-kubeletconfig-rules[This new feature] evaluates the kubelet configuration and now reports accurately. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2075041[*BZ#2075041*])
```

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator reported the `ocp4-kubelet-configure-event-creation` rule in a `FAIL` state after applying an automatic remediation due to the `eventRecordQPS` value was set higher than the default value. Now, the `ocp4-kubelet-configure-event-creation` rule remediation sets the default value and the rule applies correctly. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2082416[*BZ#2082416*])

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Compliance Operator reported the `ocp4-kubelet-configure-event-creation` rule in a `FAIL` state after applying an automatic remediation because the `eventRecordQPS` value was set higher than the default value. Now, the `ocp4-kubelet-configure-event-creation` rule remediation sets the default value, and the rule applies correctly. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2082416[*BZ#2082416*])
```

* The `ocp4-configure-network-policies` rule requires manual intervention to perform effectively. New descriptive instructions and rule updates increase applicability of the `ocp4-configure-network-policies` rule for clusters using Calico CNIs. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2091794[*BZ#2091794*])

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator would not clean up pods used to scan infrastructure when using the `debug=true` option in the scan settings. This caused pods to be left on the cluster even after deleting the Scan Setting Binding. Now, pods are always deleted when a Scan Setting Binding is deleted.(link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2092913[*BZ#2092913*])

Reviewer 6: Should "Scan Setting Binding" be capitalized here?

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator used an older version of `operator-sdk` that caused alerts about deprecated functionality. Now, an updated version of `operator-sdk` is included and there are no more alerts for deprecated functionality. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2098581[*BZ#2098581*])

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Compliance Operator used an older version of the `operator-sdk` command that caused alerts about deprecated functionality. Now, an updated version of the `operator-sdk` command is included and there are no more alerts for deprecated functionality. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2098581[*BZ#2098581*])
```

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator used an older version of the `operator-sdk` command that caused alerts about deprecated functionality. Now, an updated version of the `operator-sdk` command is included and there are no more alerts for deprecated functionality. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2098581[*BZ#2098581*])

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Compliance Operator used an older version of the `operator-sdk` command that caused alerts about deprecated functionality. Now, an updated version of the `operator-sdk` command is included, and there are no more alerts for deprecated functionality. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2098581[*BZ#2098581*])
```

* Previously, the Compliance Operator would fail to apply remediations if it could not

> determine the relationship between kubelet and machine configurations. Now, the Compliance Operator has improved handling of the machine configurations and is able to determine if a kubelet configuration is a subset of a machine configuration. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2102511[*BZ#2102511*])

Reviewer 6: You don't need this hard wrap.

> * Previously, The rule for `ocp4-cis-node-master-kubelet-enable-cert-rotation` did not properly describe success criteria. As a result, the requirements for `RotateKubeletClientCertificate` were unclear. Now, the rule for `ocp4-cis-node-master-kubelet-enable-cert-rotation` reports accurately regardless of the configuration present in the kubelet configuration file. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2105153[*BZ#2105153*])

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, the rule for `ocp4-cis-node-master-kubelet-enable-cert-rotation` did not properly describe success criteria. As a result, the requirements for `RotateKubeletClientCertificate` were unclear. Now, the rule for `ocp4-cis-node-master-kubelet-enable-cert-rotation` reports accurately regardless of the configuration present in the kubelet configuration file. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2105153[*BZ#2105153*])
```

* Previously, the rule for checking idle streaming timeouts did not consider default values, resulting in inaccurate rule reporting. Now, more robust checks ensure increased accuracy in results based on default configuration values. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2105878[*BZ#2105878*])

> * Previously, the Compliance Operator would fail to fetch API resources when parsing machine configurations without Ignition specifications, results in `api-check-pods` to crash loop. Now, the Compliance Operator handles Machine Config Pools without Ignition specifications correctly. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2117268[*BZ#2117268*])

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Compliance Operator would fail to fetch API resources when parsing machine configurations without Ignition specifications, which caused the `api-check-pods` <you need a noun here> to crash loop. Now, the Compliance Operator handles Machine Config Pools that do not have Ignition specifications correctly. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2117268[*BZ#2117268*])
```

* Previously, rules evaluating the `modprobe` configuration would fail even after applying remediations due to a mismatch in values for the `modprobe` configuration. Now, the same values are used for the `modprobe` configuration in checks and remediations, ensuring consistent results. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2117747[*BZ#2117747*])

[id="compliance-operator-0-1-57-deprecations"]
=== Deprecations

> * Specifying "Install into all namespaces in the cluster" or setting the `WATCH_NAMESPACES` environment variable to `""` no longer affects all namespaces. Any API resources installed in namespaces not specified at the time of Compliance Operator installation will no longer be operational. API resources might require creation in the `openshift-compliance` namespace. This change improves the Compliance Operator's memory usage.

Reviewer 5: API resources might require creation in the `openshift-compliance` namespace.
It could be updated to 
`API resources might require creation in the selected namespace, `openshift-compliance` by default.`
As user might install it to a namespace other than `openshift-compliance`.

> * Specifying "Install into all namespaces in the cluster" or setting the `WATCH_NAMESPACES` environment variable to `""` no longer affects all namespaces. Any API resources installed in namespaces not specified at the time of Compliance Operator installation will no longer be operational. API resources might require creation in the selected namespace, or the `openshift-compliance` namespace by default. This change improves the Compliance Operator's memory usage.

Reviewer 6: What is "Install into all namespaces in the cluster"? If it's a UI option, it should be enclosed in [asterisks](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference).
